---
title: How to Play
description: A deep dive into the rules of Disney Lorcana TCG, including
  explainations of them.
updated: 3-2-2025
---

## Winning

The main way to win is by being the first player to reach 20 lore or more.

However, if go to draw a card and you have no more cards in your deck you lose.

## Game Play

### Setup

1. Determine who will go first
2. Shuffle your deck
3. Set your lore tracker to 0
4. Draw 7 cards. You can look at the cards in your hand, but not anyone else’s hand!
5. If you don't like your cards you can change some of them. (see 'Altering Your Starting Hand' below).

### Beginning Phase

1. READY – Ready all your cards.
2. SET – Start of turn effects happen.
3. DRAW – Draw a card. (Skip this on the first turn.)

### Main Phase

Choose as many as you like (except as noted), in any order:

- Once a turn, add a card to your inkwell.
- Play a card.
- Use an item ability.
- Use a character ability that doesn’t require exerting.
- Use a location ability.
- With a character that was in play during the Set step:
  - Quest -or-
  - Challenge a location or an exerted character -or-
  - Use an ability that requires exerting.

## Explanations

### Altering Your Starting Hand

Before the game begins, each player can alter their starting hand one time, beginning with the first player. (Usually, a player does this if they don’t have very many cards with inkwell icons on them or if too many of their cards have a high cost.) To do this, put any number of cards from your hand on the bottom of your deck without revealing them, then draw cards until your hand has 7 cards again. Finally, reshuffle your deck.

### What Are Ready and Exerted Cards?

Some game rules and card effects require you to exert a card in play. To exert a card, turn it sideways.

Once a card is exerted, you can’t exert it again until it’s been readied by a game rule or card effect. To ready a card, simply turn it back upright. Remember to ready all your exerted cards at the beginning of your turn.

### Inkwell

Your inkwell is where you’ll put your ink cards, facedown. You’ll use the cards in your inkwell to pay costs, such as for cards you play from your hand.

You may put a card from your hand into your inkwell once each turn. The card you choose must have the inkwell icon around its cost {I} in the upper left corner. The more ink cards you have, the more you’ll be able to do.

To put a card in your inkwell, show the card to your opponents and then put it facedown into your inkwell as ink. No one can look at cards in the inkwell after they are put facedown.

Every card in your inkwell represents 1 ink, no matter what’s on the front. Choose wisely! Cards put into your inkwell stay there for the rest of the game. Once you put a card in your inkwell, nothing on the front matters— including its cost and ink type. It’s simply ink.

### Dual Ink Cards

Dual-ink cards belong to two inks, and have characteristics from both of them. To include them in your deck, you must be playing those two colors.

This allows for cards with game effects that would otherwise never be on the same card, as well as characters that can show off more than one of their traits, as well as completely new ones!

### Playing a Card

Playing a card just means taking it from your hand and putting it faceup on the table. Each card has an ink cost in a hexagon in the upper left corner. To play the card, you must exert that many cards in your inkwell.

When you play a character card, put it on the table above your inkwell. Characters enter play in the ready position, but you can’t do anything with them until your next turn. You need to wait for their ink to dry!

When you play an item card or a location card, put it on the table above your inkwell. Unlike characters, you can use items and locations right away.

When you play an action card, do what the card tells you to do, then put the card into your discard pile. Always put cards into your discard pile face up so everyone can see them.

Songs are a kind of action card, but there’s a special rule that gives you another way to pay for them. Each song says “(A character with cost X or more can {E} to sing this song for free.)” If you have a character with the listed cost or higher, you can exert that character to play the song card instead of exerting cards in your inkwell to do it! Using this approach still counts as playing the card. Rules for when you can exert a character still apply, of course, so characters can't sing songs the same turn they come into play.

### Shift

You can play a character using their Shift ability if you have a character with the same name in play. Pay the Shift cost instead of their ink cost and cover the original card with the new one. (You could play Pluto – Determined Defender on top of a Pluto card, for example.)

The shifted character has their own rules but keeps any damage or effects that were on the original. If the original was exerted, so is the shifted one. If the original was able to challenge, quest, or use abilities, though, the shifted character can do those things as soon as they come into play!

When a shifted character leaves play, all the cards in their stack go with them.

### Questing

To quest with one of your characters, exert them and gain lore equal to their Lore value. Remember, you can’t quest with a character the same turn you play them.

### Challenging

Questing is how you win the game, but sometimes you need to slow your opponents down. This is where challenging comes in. First, exert one of your characters to send them into the challenge. Then choose an opponent's exerted character to challenge. You can’t challenge a ready character! Both characters in a challenge deal damage. Look at each character’s Strength and put that many damage counters on the other character.

### Damage

A character is banished when they have damage counters on them that reach or exceed their Willpower. Put the character card into its player’s discard pile.

### Moving Damage

Moving damage doesn’t count as “dealing damage” or “damaging” the character or location receiving the damage counters. Effects that modify the amount of damage dealt don’t apply to damage being moved.

### Using Abilities

Many items and characters have abilities you can use during your turn (and only during your turn). These normally affect other cards in play. Cards in a player’s deck, discard, hand, or inkwell aren’t “in play,” so they aren’t affected by other cards unless the card says otherwise.

A card ability that has a cost lists it before the effect. The cost might include an exert cost, an ink cost, text that explains the cost, or a combination of any of these. You must pay every part of an ability’s cost in order to play the ability.

Remember, you can’t use the abilities of a character you played this turn.

### The Bag

The bag is the zone where triggered abilities wait to resolve. It’s not a physical zone but a way to picture the process of resolving triggered abilities. Think of each triggered ability as a marble and the bag as a place to put them until they’re resolved. Every marble is separate from every other marble, and a player can look through the bag of marbles to select the one they wish to resolve next.

Whenever a triggered ability’s condition is met, the ability is added to the bag by the player who played the card with the triggered ability. If multiple triggered abilities happen at the same time, they’re added to the bag simultaneously by the respective players.

Then the active player chooses and resolves any one of their triggered abilities and fully resolves it. If the resolution of an ability causes another ability to trigger, the new triggered ability is added to the bag once the current ability is finished resolving.

If there are abilities from multiple players in the bag, the active player resolves all of their abilities first, one at a time, including any that were added as a result of resolving abilities.

The next player resolves all of their abilities. If this causes new triggers, regardless of whose abilities triggered, the current resolving player keeps resolving their triggers.

Continue around the table Once the bag is empty and all players have no more abilities to resolve or turn actions to take, the players proceed to the next step or phase of the game. If a player leaves the game while abilities are still waiting in the bag to resolve, those abilities cease to exist.

### Keywords

Characters can have lots of different keywords on a character at the same time. A character cannot have more than one of the *same* Keyword. But, they can gain higher *numbers* for Keywords with a + or -.

With Challenger and Resist, both always have a number. You can add numbers from effects together, for a total number. Instead of giving the character the Keyword twice, you actually *change the number* the second time.

### Locations

#### Location Abilities

Some locations have abilities that give you benefits, often based on characters being at the location. These abilities can be used the same turn the location comes into play.

#### Gaining Lore with Locations

At the start of your turn, gain lore equal to the Lore value on each of the locations you have in play. Note that this is not questing, which only characters can do.

#### Moving Characters to Locations

During your turn, you can move one of your characters to one of your locations by paying the location’s move cost. Your characters can only move to your locations.

A character can move to a location the same turn either one is played. It doesn’t matter if the character being moved is exerted or ready. There’s no limit to the number of characters who can be at a location at a time.

A character can’t move from a location except to move to another location. You can do this by paying the other location’s move cost.

#### Location Challenges & Damage

On their turn, opposing characters may challenge a location the same way they’d challenge an exerted character. A character’s Challenger ability applies when challenging locations. When a location is challenged, it takes damage equal to the challenging character’s Strength. It doesn’t deal damage of its own in the challenge, however.

Locations can also take damage from some actions and abilities. Locations can’t be chosen for actions and abilities unless that text specifies a location can be chosen.

When a location has damage equal to or greater than its Willpower, it’s banished and you put that card in your discard pile.

Characters who are at a location when it’s banished simply find themselves abroad again. They’re fine; they’re just no longer at a location.

####
