---
updated: 03-03-2025
description: All about card types and structure. This is where you go to learn
  how to read the cards
title: How to Read a Card
navigation:
  title: Cards
---

## Types

### Character

You’ll send character glimmers on quests and into challenges. Some have special abilities.

### Items

Item glimmers stay in play when you play them and give you special abilities during the game.

### Actions

Actions give you a one-time advantage and are then discarded.

### Songs

Songs are a special type of action that offer a different way to play them—without paying ink!

### Locations

Location glimmers stay in play when you play them. Some give you special abilities during the game, and other cards can interact with them in exciting ways.

## Structure

### Cost

How much ink the card costs to play.

### Inkwell Icon

Cards with around the cost hexagon can be put into your inkwell to use as ink.

### Name

Characters also have a version name listed below the character’s name.

### Ink

This symbol and the colored band behind the card name indicate the card’s ink type.

### Classifications

Categories sometimes referenced in card rules.

### Abilities and Effects

The card’s special rules. On actions, these are called effects. On characters, items, and locations, most abilities have a storybased name. Especially common abilities instead use bolded keywords

### Strength

**Characters Only**

How much damage the character deals during a challenge.

### Willpower

**Characters and Locations Only**

How much damage it takes to banish the character or location.

### Lore Value

**Characters and Locations Only**

On a character, how much lore you gain when they quest. On a location, how much lore you gain at the start of your turn.

### Move Cost

**Locations Only**

The ink cost to move a character to this location.
