## Rules

- Your deck must have at least 60 cards in it.
- Your deck can't contain more than 4 copies of any single card. Different versions of the same character count as different cards.
- Your can only use cards from 1 or 2 ink colors
- You can't use any cards on the banned list (see below)

## Guidelines

### Choose a Play Style

What do you want to do? Do you want to quest and gain lore quickly? Or do you want to remove everything your opponent puts on the board? Maybe you want to build up to a combo that wins in one turn. Deciding what style of deck you want to build will determine the ink colors you choose as well as the types of cards.

### Deck Size

While you can have more 60 cards you will want to stay as close to 60 cards as possible to maintain **consistency** to ensure you have the card you need when you need it.

### Copies

You need to decide on how many copies of each card you will include in your deck. Remember that you can have up to 4 copies of specific cards. For example 'Mickey Mouse - True Friend' and 'Mickey Mouse - Brave Little Tailor' are different cards.

The number of copies you include will determine how likely you are to pull that card during a game. So have 4 copies of your key cards that you want to make sure you pull.

For cards that are only good against certain decks you will only want to have 1 to 2 copies. The same goes for cards with a high ink cost or ones that are uninkable.

### Inkable Ratio

Since cards from your deck are turned into ink in order to play your cards you need to ensure you always have enough cards to convert into ink.

A good rule of thumb is to have a 1:3 ratio. So this means around 15 uninkable cards in a 60 card deck.

### Ink Curve

This is the ink cost of your cards. The goal is to make sure you have enough ink to play cards during the game. If you have a deck with lots of high ink cost but don't have a way to get a lot of ink then you won't be able to play any of your cards.

The shape of your curve will vary depending on the deck archetype you are using. See below for typical ink curves for the 3 main archetypes. Also make sure to tweak your ink curve between games until you get it dialed in.

### Common Cards

Your deck style will determine how many of these card types you have, but every deck should have a couple of these card types.

#### Card Draw

This type of card lets you draw more cards and thus help keep your hand full. Card Advantage is often a difference maker in games.

#### Card Removal

These cards help you banish your opponents cards. They are useful to have in order to deal with powerful cards that your opponent may play.

### Synergies

As you begin to advance you'll want to look for cards that work well together and include them in your deck. This will allow you set up strategies that help you win the game beyond playing one card after the other.

### Test and Adjust

Your deck won't be perfect the first time you play it. So make sure you adjust it after each game until you fine tune it.

If you never have enough cards, add more draw cards. If you can never play a card on turn one, add more 1 ink cards. Having trouble dealing with certain threats, add more removal cards.

## Main Archetypes

Deck archetypes describe the goal and play style of the deck. Basically how the deck is trying to win.

### Aggro

These decks quest aggressively. They feature a lot of lot low cost, but high lore characters. The goal is to apply pressure and overwhelm to reach 20 lore quicker than your opponents.

The downside is that they sacrifice the late game to prioritize the early game. So if you can't reach 20 lore quickly your opponent will overwhelm you as the game takes longer.

#### Ink Curve

A linear curve with a large number of 1-2 ink cards, some 3-4 ink cards, and few if any 5+ cards.

#### Player Types

- Want to play fast paces and win or lose quickly
- Want to demand answers from your opponents, instead of responding to your opponents
- Are beginners. This deck has a very straight forward strategy.

### Control

These decks are more of an attrition style of game play. The idea is to whittle down your opponents resources until you can win with your more powerful cards. The play style is slower and the idea is to respond to threats efficiently. This is accomplished by banishing and exerting of your opponents characters.

#### Ink Curve

A wave with a low number of 1 and 4-5 ink cards, but higher numbers of 2-3 and 6+ ink cards

#### Player Types

- Want to play a slower more complex game
- Want to be rewarded for patient and strategic play
- Want to respond their opponents boards rather than demanding answers

### Midrange

This is a balance between aggro and control decks. The goal is to control early game play and be aggressive in the mid-game. They have the flexibility to be more reactive and attrition based against aggro decks, and a more pro-active aggressive game against control decks.

Steel Ink is commonly found in midrange decks has they have efficient early game removal.

#### Ink Curve

A bell curve with a few 1-2 ink cards, a larger concentration of 3,4, 5 ink cards, and a smaller number of 6+ ink cards

#### Player Type

- Want a more flexible play style
- Want to adapt more quickly to their opponents
- Be rewarded with efficient use of resources

### Deck Dynamics

- Aggro decks often beat control decks because they can apply early lore pressure that control decks can't respond to.
- Control decks often beat midrange decks because they have stronger top end cards that out value midrange decks.
- Midrange decks often beat aggro decks because their efficient removal slows down the aggro decks

## Sub Archetypes

### Tempo

These decks will have early aggro threats, but have the ability to affect the tempo of their opponents.

### Ramp

They want to accelerate ink to reach late game cards sooner.

### Lore Gain (Burn)

These decks have effects that generate lore directly without the need to quest.

### Combo

These decks focus on a specific combination of cards that will win in a single turn. The goal is to control the early game and draw card abilities so they can assemble their combo.

### Prison

The goal is to prevent your opponent from regaining momentum. These decks grind their way to victory by denying their opponent from playing cards or keep their characters on the board.

### Mill

These decks don't try to get to 20 lore, but instead make their opponent run out of cards in their deck.

## Ban List

There are currently no banned cards.

However, many players feel like 'Bucky - Squirrel Squeak Tutor' should be banned even though they did announce errata changes to the card.

## Sources

- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OuuXP_IhY0A&t=88s>
