---
updated: 03-03-2025
description: For those looking to up their game here are some tips and strategies for you.
title: Strategy
---

## Resource Management

Lorcana Resources: Cards, Ink, and Lore

### Card Advantage

This refers to one player having more cards on the board and in their hand than their opponent. Players with more cards in hand, on board, and in ink has card advantage.

Drawing cards or making your opponent discard cards helps you gain and maintain card advantage.

Some cards have a neutral advantage where you have to discard a card to get your opponent to discard a card. This is known as card trading.

Cards that add ink from your deck can also help card advantage.

### Ink Advantage

The player who most efficiently uses their ink will be ahead in tempo. This isn't about how much ink you have on the board (that's card advantage). But instead how effectively you use the ink you have.

Gaining ink advantage is about answering your opponent's board as efficiently as possible. Compare the ink cost of what your doing compared to what your achieving.

Shift allows you to trade card advantage for ink advantage.

Singing allows you to trade lore advantage for ink advantage

Making an efficient trade in challenges will also give you an ink advantage.

Prevent leaving ink unused during your turn.

### Lore Advantage

This is simply which player has the most lore.

How much lore can often dictate whether you have to play offensively or defensively and will lead to your gameplay decisions.

## Gameplay Decisions

### When to Quest

Quest whenever it is safe to do so. This means when your opponent has no characters, or they would make unfavorable trades. An unfavorable trade means that if they challenge you they will loose their character but you won't loose yours, or if both characters are banished but their character had an ability that you would like removed.

Quest if you have a strong lore lead then it may also be worth questing even if they can challenge down your characters. Because questing will add more pressure and require more answers from your opponent.

Quest if you have a wider board (more characters) than your opponent, because your opponent won't be able to challenge everyone.

### When to Challenge

Challenge when behind to regain control of the board. Having board control (more high power characters) can set you up for victory.

Challenge when you can make a favorable trades. Favorable challenges aim to have your character survive, or trade a low value character for a high value character

### Do Nothing

Do nothing when challenges are unfavorable.

When the available challenges are a stalemate. Instead wait until more cards are played and the stalemate is over.

### Understand the Lore Clock

If the board stayed exactly like it is now, how many turns would it take to reach 20 lore and win. Then quest or challenge in a way that will allow you to reach 20 lore before your opponent.

If your opponent has smaller lore clock (win in fewer turns) then you need to make some changes. This can be accomplished by challenging effectively and increasing you lore clock. Or if you have enough turns adding additional cards that will lower your lore clock.

### Keep Track of Cards Played

Paying attention to the cards played by both you and your opponent will help you know what potential answers are available in your respective decks.

You need to keep track of cards in the inkwell and the discard pile. But you don't need to remember every card that has been played. Instead focus on the important cards.

But remember once a card is in an inkwell it can no longer be looked at. However, the discard pile is public information and you can look through either yours or your opponents discard pile at anytime.

## Practice

As with everything you want to get good at you will need to practice. This will allow you to get familiar with popular cards and begin to plan ahead. Not only will you plan out your own turns based on the cards on the board and in your hand. But you'll also be able to anticipate what your opponent may do in the future.

But this doesn't mean that you just play games and hope for the best. Instead you need to focus less on winning or losing and instead on getting a deeper understanding of the game.

### Open-hand Method

Both players play with their hands face up on the table and actively discuss the best plays available to them. This will expose many of the fundamentals of the game.

### Perfect Play

Each player is allowed to pick the cards they want from their deck instead of picking randomly. They will start with their deck's "perfect" opening hand. This allows you to play out worst case scenarios and identify how to overcome them.

### Play Both Sides

Instead of playing with another person, you play both sides. This is similar to the open-hand method but is helpful when you don't have another person to play with. That being said you should still find time to play with other players as they will have different insights than you.

### Use proxy decks

Use Jorcana.ink to print out proxy decks of all sorts of types so you can play your deck against many different types. This will make sure your deck has an answer to the widest array of decks it may come up against.

Just make sure you support Disney Lorcana and purchase the real cards along side the proxy cards.

## Sources

- [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EV9Dy193r\_M]()
- [https://infinite.tcgplayer.com/article/Lorcana-Resource-Theory-Card-Advantage-Ink-Advantage-And-Lore-Advantage/81aec220-b938-4e8d-b0ea-f2d7b46c168b/]()
- [https://infinite.tcgplayer.com/article/10-Simple-Guidelines-To-Improve-Your-Combat-Decisions-In-Lorcana/b19aa7cf-8bbd-48b4-b098-c6d5c7ade85f/]()
