---
updated: 03-04-2025
description: Information on all the sets that have been release or are about to be released
title: Sets
---

## 1. The First Chapter

**Released:** September 2023

In the realm of Lorcana, even the most familiar of faces may surprise you. At the center of this wondrous place is the Great Illuminary, where Illumineers wield magical ink to create glimmers of beloved Disney characters and begin their adventures together.

#### Amber/Amethyst

Moana & Mickey

#### Emerald/Ruby

Cruela DeVil & Aladdin

#### Sapphire/Steel

Aurora & Mufasa

## 2. Rise of the Floodborn

**Released:** November 2023

A sudden explosion rocks the Great Illuminary. Inside, magical ink crashes together and a flood rushes through the hallways. Glimmers of characters swept up in the chaotic flood find themselves transformed in surprising ways, while precious lore is washed out into the Inklands far below.

#### Amber/Sapphire

Evil Queen & Gaston

#### Amethyst/Steel

Merlin & Tiana

## 3. Into the Inklands

**Released:** February 2024

The flood has washed precious lore far into the Inklands! Eager to recover what was lost, adventurous Illumineers head into the unknown reaches of the realm. Wonders and mystery await them at every turn, but their goal remains. The scattered lore must be returned to the Hall of Lorcana... before it falls into the wrong hands.

#### Amber/Emerald

Dalmatians & Peter Pan

#### Ruby/Sapphire

Moana & Scrooge McDuck

## 4. Ursula's Return

**Released:** May 2024

A storm has been building in the magical realm of Lorcana. A powerful Ursula glimmer, unleashed from the Great Illuminary, is at last ready to put plans into motion. How far will the sea witch go to gain power over all Lorcana?

#### Amber/Amethyst

??? & Bruno

#### Sapphire/Steel

Anna & Hercules

## 5. Shimmering Skies

**Released:** August 2024

The celebration has just begun, and you’re invited! You’ll gather with Illumineers and glimmers near the Great Illuminary for games, food, music, dancing, and more. The guest list includes new faces like Wreck-It Ralph and his pixelated pals from Litwak’s Arcade as well as Anna, Elsa, and Olaf fresh from their most recent adventure into the Enchanted Forest. It’s an event the realm will always remember!

#### Amethyst/Ruby

Elsa and Wreck-it-Ralph

#### Emerald/Steel

Scar && Kronk

## 6. Azurite Sea

**Released:** November 2024

Set your sights on the horizon! Following an ancient map, you'll sail the beautiful yet unpredictable Azurite Sea. Joining you on board, and among this Disney Lorcana set’s 200+ cards, are friends from *Big Hero 6* and *Chip 'n' Dale: Rescue Rangers*! Whether you face kakamora pirates or the whirlpool of a new mystery, your shipmates are ready to head bow-first into adventure.

#### Amber/Ruby

??? & Tigger

#### Emerald/Sapphire

??? & Gadget

## 7. Archazia's Island

**Released:** March 2025

Welcome to Archazia's Island, where friendly pets abound! Beyond the cast of cuddly critters, lies an ancient secret just waiting to be discovered...

#### Ruby/Sapphire

Belle & Beast

#### Amethyst/Steel

Iago & Jafar

## 8. Reign of Jafar

**Released:** June 2025

Jafar has taken over Archazia’s Island, corrupting the beautiful haven into his menacing fortress. His reign may be the greatest threat that Lorcana has faced!

## 9. Fabled

**Released:** Q3 2025

There's power in the tales we tell. Welcome to Disney Lorcana, a realm where magical stories come to life. Whether this is your first time playing the game, or you're returning to team up with a few new pals, there's something for everyone in Fabled!
