## Standard

This is a two-person game using [standard rules](/articles/how-to-play).

## Multiplayer

The [rules](/articles/how-to-play) stay the same. You just have more players and the play goes clockwise (player to the left goes next).

Whenever an ability requires more than one player to do something at the same time, start with the player whose turn it is, then proceed to the left until each affected player has done their action.

## Pack Rush

### Winning

The first player to reach 15 lore or more wins the game.

### Setup

1. Each player needs two unopened Disney Lorcana booster packs. These can be from the same set or a mix of your favorite sets.
2. Determine the first player using any method that’s convenient and comfortable for you. Examples include rolling dice, flipping a coin, taking turns naming Disney Princesses until someone can’t, etc.
3. Open your booster packs. It’s best if you don’t look at the cards yet. That way the game can be a surprise for everyone.
4. Set aside the marketing/puzzle cards. You’ll need them later.
5. Shuffle all the cards from your two booster packs together, again taking care not to look at them. There are no ink restrictions in Pack Rush—you can play with them all!
6. Set your lore tracker to 0.
7. Draw 5 cards for your starting hand. If you want to alter your hand, you can do that now.
8. Remember those two marketing/puzzle cards you set aside? Alakazam—they’re ink cards! Put them into your inkwell in the ready position. You start the game with 2 ink ready to go!

### Notes

- If you need to draw and you’ve run out of cards in your deck, shuffle your discard and place it facedown as your new deck.
