## Types

#### Character

You’ll send character glimmers on quests and into challenges. Some have special abilities.

#### Items

Item glimmers stay in play when you play them and give you special abilities during the game.

#### Actions

Actions give you a one-time advantage and are then discarded.

#### Songs

Songs are a special type of action that offer a different way to play them—without paying ink!

#### Locations

Location glimmers stay in play when you play them. Some give you special abilities during the game, and other cards can interact with them in exciting ways.

## Structure

### All Cards

#### Cost

How much ink the card costs to play.

#### Inkwell Icon

Cards with around the cost hexagon can be put into your inkwell to use as ink.

#### Name

Characters also have a version name listed below the character’s name.

#### Ink

This symbol and the colored band behind the card name indicate the card’s ink type.

#### Classifications

Categories sometimes referenced in card rules.

#### Abilities and Effects

The card’s special rules. On actions, these are called effects. On characters, items, and locations, most abilities have a storybased name. Especially common abilities instead use bolded keywords

### Some Cards

#### Strength

How much damage the character deals during a challenge.

#### Willpower

How much damage it takes to banish the character or location.

#### Lore Value

On a character, how much lore you gain when they quest. On a location, how much lore you gain at the start of your turn.

#### Move Cost

The ink cost to move a character to this location.
