## Colors

### Amber

::prose-blockquote{from="Disney Lorcana Website"}
*Amber glimmers are purposeful. Patient and dedicated, they’re able to pursue causes and ambitions with single-minded persistence. They often work within communities, either from above as a leader or from within as a healer, bodyguard, or just a loyal follower.*
::

- Healing
- Bodyguards
- Singers

Amber glimmers have less strength but they often have the ability to reduce the strength of opponents. Amber is less focused on controlling your opponents and more about helping you close the game. Amber also includes some powerful singers

**Keywords**: Singer, Bodyguard, Support

### Amethyst

::prose-blockquote{from="Disney Lorcana Website"}
*Amethyst glimmers are wondrous, for this is the otherworldly ink of sorcerers, sages, animated objects, and other glimmers who use their special powers to achieve their aims. They are incredibly powerful when they have access to their amazing abilities but may land in trouble if they’re stripped of those or tap into power they can’t control.*
::

- Card Draw
- Force Exert
- Control

Amethyst glimmers excel at card draw and finding what you need in your deck. They also have the ability to move damage between characters. Amethyst also has a large number of cards that give lore.

**Keywords**: Rush, Challenger, Evasive

### Emerald

::prose-blockquote{from="Disney Lorcana Website"}
*Emerald glimmers are flexible. Gifted with the ability to adapt to changing circumstances, they are never caught off guard. Quick-thinking but not necessarily book-smart, they navigate their environment—whether physical or social, natural or artificial—with ease.*
::

- Aggro
- Disruption
- Discard

Emerald glimmers have high questing potential along effects to punish and slow down your opponents. They have ability to prevent your opponent from questing, returning cards to their hand, or discard cards all together. Emerald also has a lot of equalizer events if your opponent is in the lead.

**Keywords**: Ward, Evasive

### Ruby

::prose-blockquote{from="Disney Lorcana Website"}
*Ruby glimmers are daring. They use their speed and bravery to defy the odds. They are often warriors, explorers, and daredevils.*
::

- Control
- Removal
- Damage

Ruby is focuses on controlling your opponents board through focus removal. They may not quest for much lore, but some have abilities to banish and damage your opponents. Ruby also has some very powerful songs to control your opponent. There are also characters that can self inflict damage to itself in exchange for other benefits. This is a very aggressive ink.

**Keywords**: Evasive, Rush, Reckless

### Sapphire

::prose-blockquote{from="Disney Lorcana Website"}
*Sapphire glimmers are intellectual. Intelligent and creative, they excel at strategy, invention, and the arts. They can almost always know something, plan something, or invent something that will win the day.*
::

- Ink Ramp
- Late-Game
- Items

Sapphire focuses on building and ramping ink as quickly as possible in order to gain an advantage. Therefore Sapphire tends to play a bit slower. It also has a large number of items. There are also cards that replace themselves so you don't run out of cards to play. Sapphire tends to require the most planning from players amongst the ink types.

**Keywords**: Support, Ward, Resist

### Steel

::prose-blockquote{from="Disney Lorcana Website"}
*Steel glimmers are strong. Large and imposing, armored, or just plain powerful, Steel glimmers can apply huge amounts of brute force to get the job done.*
::

Control

Damage Spread

Draw & Filter

Steel, like Ruby, is another ink focused on control. Steel tends to inflict damage and target multiple characters at once. They also have more tools with removing items and locations. Steel also has ways to draw cards and filter through your deck for the ones you need.

**Keywords**: Resist, Challenger, Bodyguard

## Combos

#### Amber/Amethyst

#### Amber/Emerald

#### Amber/Ruby

#### Amber/Sapphire

#### Amber/Steel

#### Amethyst/Emerald

#### Amethyst/Ruby

#### Amethyst/Sapphire

#### Amethyst/Steel

#### Emerald/Ruby

#### Emerald/Sapphire

#### Emerald/Steel

#### Ruby/Sapphire

#### Ruby/Steel

#### Sapphire/Steel

#### Stats

| Combo             | Meta Score | Single Player Decks |
| ----------------- | :--------: | ------------------- |
| Amber/Amethyst    |     3%     | Set 1, Set 4        |
| Amber/Emerald     |     2%     | Set 3               |
| Amber/Ruby        |     1%     | Set 6               |
| Amber/Sapphire    |     0%     | Set 2               |
| Amber/Steel       |     19%    |                     |
| Amethyst/Emerald  |     10%    |                     |
| Amethyst/Ruby     |     14%    | Set 5               |
| Amethyst/Sapphire |     3%     |                     |
| Amethyst/Steel    |     7%     | Set 2, Set 7        |
| Emerald/Ruby      |     0%     | Set 1               |
| Emerald/Sapphire  |     1%     | Set 6               |
| Emerald/Steel     |     8%     | Set 5               |
| Ruby/Sapphire     |     17%    | Set 3, Set 7        |
| Ruby/Steel        |     1%     |                     |
| Sapphire/Steel    |     5%     | Set 1, Set 4        |

## Sources

- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=se8RNOQiIm8&list=PLsBhPI5kZwxM5An7PH1KRl_DmiEngzKr8&index=4>
