---
title: 'Keywords & Abilities'
---

## Keywords

#### Bodyguard

_This character may enter play exerted. An opposing character who challenges one of your characters must choose one with Bodyguard if able._

If you have two characters with Bodyguard who are both exerted, your opponent can **choose which one to challenge**. They might choose to take one down first, then the other. They could also spread the damage and use another card to deal damage to both.

Cards with **Bodyguard** _can_ be the targets of effects and damage that aren’t from challenges. It doesn’t stop the card from being sent back to your hand, to the discard, or being readied. Readying the character would mean your opponent can then challenge another of your characters.

Just because a card with **Bodyguard** is rested, doesn’t mean it _must_ be challenged. The ability only forces characters to challenge this card first if they _choose_ to challenge.

You don’t _have_ to exert a card with **Bodyguard** on the turn it’s played if you don’t want to. However, you must choose whether or not to exert it _immediately when it enters play_. You can’t play it, take another action, then exert it using the ability.

If a character with **Bodyguard** is given **Evasive**, and the opponent has no **Evasive** characters that can make a valid challenge, they don’t have to choose to challenge that character and can attack another valid target.

This would also apply if something else would stop a character from _being able_ to challenge the character with Bodyguard. If they weren’t able to challenge them, they could choose another valid target.

#### Challenger

_While challenging, this character gets +x strength._

That means a card could have a low challenge value normally, and not be great in responding when they are challenged by an opponent. However, they could **take out a much higher-cost character when they challenge** – even if they get banished for their effort.

#### Evasive

_Only characters with Evasive can challenge this character._

Cards with this keyword ability can only be challenged by other cards with the keyword ability, but can still challenge those without.

Characters with **Evasive can choose to challenge characters without the ability**. They don’t both need it. When they challenge, damage still happens like normal. It just means characters without it can’t choose to start the challenge.

#### Reckless

_Characters with Reckless can‘t quest and must challenge if able._

The ability means:-

1. That character can’t quest this turn – even if they normally could, and even if they can’t challenge
2. If there is a valid opponent to challenge and the card can’t take another action that would exert them or stop them from being able to challenge, they must challenge

If you have a Reckless character and an opponent’s character can be challenged, you must challenge it. That is, unless you can take an action like singing a song or something that _isn’t_ questing to exert your card.

If you give an opponent’s character the **Reckless** keyword and leave one or more of your characters exerted, your opponent’s character must challenge yours unless they can be otherwise exerted.

Some clarifications: –

- Characters with Reckless can still _choose_ targets to challenge if there is more than one valid target
- Characters with Reckless can still sing – this is a great way to stop them from challenging if it would be bad for you
- They still can’t challenge cards with **Evasive** unless they have Evasive too
- If another ability or card stops that character from challenging that turn by exerting it or otherwise stopping it – it doesn’t challenge
- Even if the character doesn’t _have_ to challenge, it still can’t quest
- If that character has a card **Shifted** onto it, it _will_ still retain Reckless
- You don’t have to challenge straight away. Basically, think of this as an end-of-turn check. If you can’t exert your character or stop them from being able to challenge in another way, they must if able.

#### Resist

_Damage dealt to this character is reduced by x._

Resist is a simple way of reducing all forms of damage to a character. When they should take damage from a challenge, an effect, or a card – they have the amount reduced by the number on the Keyword.

They can resist multiple times, and **Resist** doesn’t wear down like extra willpower. Resist can also be given or increased.

#### Rush

_They can challenge the turn they’re played._

Rush is a keyword ability that allows characters to challenge on the first turn that they are played. Normally when you play a character to the board, it can’t attack on its first turn because its ink still has to dry.

While the keyword ability allows them to challenge straight away, they can’t take other actions like questing or singing. That’s important as being able to instantly quest would be very hard to work around.

#### Shift

_You may pay x ink to play this on top of one of your characters named y_

The cost of the **Shift** ability for that character is the “x” above. There are some Shift abilities that require you to pay an alternate cost – like discarding a card – to Shift. You must pay whatever the Shift ability says to use it.

However, there are two ways to play a Shift character:

- You can choose to pay the Shift cost and play the character over the character named in the “y” part of the ability. You must pay that much ink.
- You can play the character as normal without using the Shift ability or its cost. Pay the normal ink cost at the top left of the character. The character is not played over another character, just played as normal.
-
However, the shifted character does keep the “status” from the card below. If the lower card was played this turn and can’t be exerted for quests e.t.c., neither can the new card on top. If the lower card was exerted, so is the new one.

Damage tokens and other effects all carry over. So if the previous card had one damage token and was exerted, so does the new card. If the previous card had been given **Reckless**, **Ward**, or other abilities, those also carry over.

The main advantage of Shift is being able to play a cheap character in one turn and get a more powerful one in the next. It also might subvert any plans your opponent had for banishing that cheaper character in their next turn.

The disadvantages are that you effectively lose a character you already paid for. This means you have to think about your deck’s build, plus losing the abilities of that other character.

When a Shift character is discarded, put into the inkwell, or sent back to its owner’s hand – all cards in that character start are sent there. So if you banish the character, both cards are discarded. If you return a shifted character, the owner gets both cards back.

Remember you can Shift multiple times so the stack can be more than two.

#### Singer

_This character counts as cost x to sing songs._

Singer allows cards to sing songs that require a higher ink cost than they normally have. Normally, songs can only be sung by characters that meet the ink cost of the song card’s text.

Singer gives them a higher number – though their ink cost stays the same.

#### Sing Together

_Any number of your or your teammates’ characters with total cost x or more may exert to sing this song for free._

It allows multiple characters to band together and sing, simply by exerting characters matching the ink cost of that song.

It does also state “_Any number of your or your teammates’ characters_“. That means when playing as part of a team, two or more players can exert their characters to sing the song.

#### Support

_Whenever this character quests, you may add their strength to another chosen character‘s strength this turn._

You might give that strength to a character that’s going to challenge this turn to make sure they can take out an opponent. It only lasts for _this_ turn, not your opponent’s turn. The Support character doesn’t lose their strength.

A character can get the effect of Support (but not the Keyword itself) multiple times.

Characters can use Support more than once if you can ready and quest with them again. The “_Whenever_” in the text is key.

#### Vanish

_When an opponent chooses this character for an action, banish them._

If a character with Vanish is _chosen_ as part of an _Action_, the character with the Vanish keyword is banished.

Clarifications:

- “_Banish them_” refers to the “_this character_” aka the card with the keyword that is being chosen. You wouldn’t banish the opponent or their characters.
- Action means an Action type card – which would include Action • Song cards.
- Action _wouldn’t_ mean when they’re chosen by a character/item/location ability, or when chosen in a challenge etc
- “_Chooses_” means when they are chosen by a card effect. It doesn’t matter what the effect was, if the Vanish character is chosen by it, they would be banished
- The Action must be fully resolved before the character is banished, so the “_banish this character_” effect would go into the bag, then be resolved if possible after the original Action card’s text is resolved.
- It’s important to note that the character must be _chosen_ by an action, not just affected. If a card does something to all characters, all type/class/name characters, and _doesn’t_ require choosing – Vanish isn’t triggered.

#### Ward

_Opponents can’t choose this character except to challenge._

Ward is a powerful ability that stops your card being chosen by cards that might do it damage, discard it, or otherwise hamper it. Essentially any card that says “_choose_” or “_chosen_” can’t target a character with Ward.

Your opponent can still challenge the character, and your character can still challenge, quest, use its effects, sing, etc.

Bear in mind that card abilities that don’t “_choose_” a card will still work. We don’t have any yet, but if your opponent has a card that does damage to _all_ opponent characters – Ward wouldn’t protect against it because there is no “_choosing_” in the text.

Characters with Ward can still be chosen for effects that you choose, as it specifies “_Opponents can’t choose this character_“, not all players.


## Abilities

#### Draw

**Draw simply means taking the top card from your deck and putting it into your hand**. Cards that allow you to draw are very powerful. Having more cards than your opponent is called “hand advantage” or “card advantage”. The more cards you have, the more options you have.

#### Look At Top X

This is another common card game ability. You **take the top x number of cards from your deck and look at them**. It’s normally followed by another action.

Most of the time you then choose to put the cards back on the top or bottom in any order you’d prefer. Sometimes you can keep one of those cards but must discard another. It’s a good way to draw cards or plan your next turns.

#### Banish

Banishing a character or item means **sending it to that player’s discard pile**. It’s a powerful ability that can ruin a game plan by sending a high-cost character thats _just_ about to win a game to the trash!

While it costs a lot, it can be absolutely worth it. In other card games, this will often have a limit on the cost of a character that it can banish to stop it from being overpowered.

#### Return From Discard

In the same way that having a card banished can be a game-breaker, so can returning that card. Some abilities allow you to return either a character or item back to your hand.

A slight variation on this is one that lets you take a card from a chosen player’s discard and shuffle it back into their deck. That allows you to either: –

1. Stop your opponent from returning a card from their discard straight away
2. Search your deck for that card in the future or hope you draw it soon

#### Return to Hand

Another tricksy ability that puts a card back in the owner’s hand. While not as powerful as **Banish**, it wastes time and ink by forcing the player to pay again if they want to use the card.

You can also use this ability to return your own cards to hand. You might do this so you can play them again readied so they can’t be challenged, or to use an on play ability again.
