## Rules

- Your deck must have at least 60 cards in it.
- Your deck can't contain more than 4 copies of any single card. Different versions of the same character count as different cards.
- Your can only have 1 or 2 ink colors
- No cards can be in the banned list.
  - NOTE: At the moment there are no banned cards, however many users are calling for the banning of 'Bucky - Squirrel Squeak Tutor'

## Archetypes

## Guidelines

### Choose a Play Style

What do you want to do? Do you want to quest and gain lore quickly? Or do you want to remove everything your opponent puts on the board? Maybe you want to build up to a combo that wins in one turn. Deciding what style of deck you want to build will determine the ink colors you choose as well as the types of cards.

### Deck Size

While you can have more 60 cards you will want to stay as close to 60 cards as possible to maintain **consistency** to ensure you have the card you need when you need it.

### Copies

You need to decide on how many copies of each card you will include in your deck. Remember that you can have up to 4 copies of specific cards. For example 'Mickey Mouse - True Friend' and 'Mickey Mouse - Brave Little Tailor' are different cards.

The number of copies you include will determine how likely you are to pull that card during a game. So have 4 copies of your key cards that you want to make sure you pull.

For cards that are only good against certain decks you will only want to have 1 to 2 copies. The same goes for cards with a high ink cost or ones that are uninkable.

### Inkable Ratio

Since cards from your deck are turned into ink in order to play your cards you need to ensure you always have enough cards to convert into ink.

A good rule of thumb is to have a 1:3 ratio. So this means around 15 uninkable cards in a 60 card deck.

### Ink Curve

This is the ink cost of your cards. The goal is to make sure you have enough ink to play cards during the game. If you have a deck with lots of high ink cost but don't have a way to get a lot of ink then you won't be able to play any of your cards.

A typical deck should have a few 1-2 ink cards, a larger concentration of 3,4, 5 ink cards, and a smaller number of 6+ ink cards. This will produce a bell curve.

The shape of your curve will vary depending on the deck style you have so feel free to tweak between games until you get it dialed in.

### Common Cards

Your deck style will determine how many of these card types you have, but every deck should have a couple of these card types.

#### Card Draw

This type of card lets you draw more cards and thus help keep your hand full. Card Advantage is often a difference maker in games.

#### Card Removal

These cards help you banish your opponents cards. They are useful to have in order to deal with powerful cards that your opponent may play.

### Synergies

As you begin to advance you'll want to look for cards that work well together and include them in your deck. This will allow you set up strategies that help you win the game beyond playing one card after the other.

### Test and Adjust

Your deck won't be perfect the first time you play it. So make sure you adjust it after each game until you fine tune it.

If you never have enough cards, add more draw cards. If you can never play a card on turn one, add more 1 ink cards. Having trouble dealing with certain threats, add more removal cards.

## Sources

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OuuXP_IhY0A&t=88s>
